---
series: create-app
articleType: note
showTime: false
showOutdatedWarning: false
created: 2023-10-15
updated: 2023-10-15
tags:
  - bubblewrap
---

# Using bubblewrap
*Bubblewrap is the tool that converts a pwa-homepage into a format that can be uploaded to Google Play Console. Using bubblewrap is very difficult, and on this page we need to focus only on how to install bubblewrap and how to use this tool (to create an aab-file).*

## Installing bubblewrap
The best way to install bubblewrap is globally, thats the reson it isn't included as a package in this app. Just install it globally with the `-g`-word.[^1]

## 1.step - init
The first time you use bubblewrap is the most important step. You have to take this step very carefully, don't be in a hurry when you do this step. Write down all the inputs you do, or copy/past the content in the terminal/ cmd (after the bubblewrap-work is done) to a text-file.txt, and keep it in a safe place (for the rest of the apps life).
 
```bash
# This will start a big work that you have to take care of everything you input in the prosess.
bubblewrap init --manifest="https://github-repo-name.vercel.app/manifest.webmanifest" --directory="bubblewrap
```

Instead of writing this on the command line, in the root, you will be guided if you run this command:

```bash
create-app
# OR
./create-app.bat
# The last one if you jusing Git Bash or not windows cmd.
```

::TipBox{type="warning" name="Never again"}
Never do this step again in this app. 

Well, there is a solution if you don't have uploaded the bundle to _Google Play Console_. Then you can just delete the folder and start ower again.

If you have upladed the _aab_-bundle to _Google Play Console_:  
You can never delete an app from the _Console_ - so the only solution is to not transfer it to _production_, and create a new app (with another name).
::

## 2.step - build
After the init is done, there is only two commands. Take it easy with the second step. If you get problems, read the _info_-box below.

```bash
# This commands is needed also when updating
cd bubblewrap
# Here comes a command that is needed when updating (look below).
bubblewrap build
```

::TipBox{type="info" name="If problems"}
If you want to create a new bundle, you can't do it IF you have published the _bundle_ to _Google Play Console_.

You can never delete an app from the _Console_. One solution is not to transfer it to _production_, copy what you have done and start with a new app.

There is a solution if you don't have uploaded the bundle to _Google Play Console_. Then you can just delete the _bubblewrap_-folder and start ower again (with init).
::

Read more about using bubblewrap in this sources:
- [GoogleChromeLabs](https://github.com/GoogleChromeLabs/bubblewrap/blob/main/packages/cli/README.md){:target="_blank"}
- [PWA in Play](https://developers.google.com/codelabs/pwa-in-play#1){:target="_blank"}
- [Trusted Web Activity](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/android/trusted-web-activity/quick-start/){:target="_blank"}
- [Mikael Sukoinen](https://vaadin.com/blog/submitting-a-pwa-to-google-play-store-using-bubblewrap){:target="_blank"}

## 3.step - updating
Note.[^2]

```bash
# Only on updating to a newer version of the app
cd bubblewrap
bubblewrap update
bubblewrap build
```

## Notes
[^1]: `npm install -g bubblewrap`. See the last chapter in the _setup_-page for [more info](/article/setup-and-deploy/setup/setup-and-install).
[^2]: This step is coming when you will update your app to a newer version. Its normally taks a while to you need to update your app, but when you need - you can't if you don't remember EVERY input you did, in the first step.

<!-- 
Made by laywer Kyrie Eleison 2023.
-->