---
articleType: note
head.title: How to Create Google App?
created: 2023-10-10
updated: 2023-11-03
tags:
  - Overview
---

# How to become a google app developer?
In this tutorial you will learn to create an app and publish it; first as as an homepage, and then on Google Play Store, in less than one week. The tutorial is split in to foure step.

## Install and Setup
The goal on this **first step** is to install the _template_-package on our local machine.

If you are already familiar with GitHub, then you can download this app, install the packages and get a local _copy_ of it on your local machine in 10 minutes.

Is that's the case you can jump to the last step about Using [bubblewrap](/article/create-and-upload/create-app/bubblewrap) and [Google Play Console](/article/create-and-upload/upload-app/play-console).

But still, if you have downloaded packages that stands on its own feet, be aware of that this package is also a template. In this tutorial we will try to help people that have no programming skills, therefore we will use the template (then you get better owerview - of the content).

The first step (for non-developers) is to [create GitHub-account](https://github.com/join){:target="_blank"}.[^1]

### Setup and install
Download or clone the repo. Read more about it in [Setup and install](/article/setup-and-deploy/setup/setup-and-install)

## Content and config
The goal in this **second step** is to have our own content in markdown-format. Read about it in [Content and config](/article/setup-and-deploy/content/content-and-config)

## GitHub and Vercel
In **this third step** the goal is to push the repo on our local machine out to GitHub and connect it to Vercel. Read about it in [GitHub and Vercel](/article/setup-and-deploy/deploy/github-and-vercel)

### Verification and Analytics
After deploying the GitHub-repo to Vercel we can verify our ownership in [Google Search Console](/article/setup-and-deploy/deploy/verification-and-analytics#google-search-console) and connect to [Vercel Analytics](/article/setup-and-deploy/deploy/verification-and-analytics#vercel-analytics).

## Create and upload app
The goal in **this last step** is to publish an app on `Google App Store`.

If you already are a open-source-programmer and familiar with github and deploying repos on _vercel_, you can skip the step abowe and jump right to this step (as said above).

This step have two substep:
1. [Using bubblewrap](/article/create-and-upload/create-app/bubblewrap)
2. [Google App Console](/article/create-and-upload/upload-app/play-console)

## Note
[^1]: Not necessary on this time in the tutorial, but the best time to do it. So please return to the tutorial, after the creating;)

<!-- 
Made by laywer Kyrie Eleison 2023.
-->